# MODEL0912160001: Guyton1972_Electrolytes

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL0912160001.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL0912160001.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**Circulation: overall regulation.**   
Guyton AC, Coleman TG, Granger HJ. _Annu Rev Physiol_ 1972;34:13-46
[4334846](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4334846) ,  
**Abstract:**   
This article is an experiment, one undertaken primarily because of the long-
term belief of Dr. Victor Hall, Editor of the Annual Review of Physiology fo r
many years, that physiology is, or at least should be, an analytical subject,
and that a method not utilized to its fullest advantage for organizing review
material is the systems analysis. Furthermore, one of the most likely areas in
physiology for which a systems analysis could be of value would be in a
discussion of circulatory regulation. Therefore, this article was undertaken
directly at the request of the editors of the A ogy to attempt the welding
togeth er of a systemsn annuaally Rsiesv ioewf coifr cPuhlaytsoiorlyregulation
with a review of the current literature in this field. The systems analysis of
circulatory regulation developed for this article is based on earlier, much
less extensive analyses (Guyton and Coleman 1, 2); it i s illustrated in
Figure 1. This analysis is comprised of 354 blocks, each of which represents
one or more mathematical equations describing some physiological facet of
circulatory function. In general, each of the functional blocks has been the
subject of research investigation by one or many investigator s, but the
analysis is based on cumulative knowledge of the circulation rather than
simply on current literature. Therefore, the analysis presented here is not a
review of the current literature but is a framework to show how the different
regulations operate together in the overall system. Later in this review we
will attempt to show some of the voids still present in our knowledge of
circulatory regulation (which is perhaps the most important value of
performing systems analyses), and we will discuss the current research that is
attempting to fill these voids. A criticism that has often been made against
systems analyses, and very justly so, is that they are usually designed to
explain specific phenomena. Therefore, they too often are based on such
bizarre concepts of function that they not only fail to give correct
predictions (other than the specific ones for which they are designed) but,
indeed, often give exactly reverse predictions. Therefore, the analysis of
Figure 1 was based almost entirely on act ual experimental data, and it has
been tested in computer simulations to see whether or not it can predict the
animal or human results of many different types of circulatory stresses
induced either experimentally or as the result of clinical abnormalities.
Figures 2 through 5 present simulations of some of these experiments or
clinical conditions. They will be described later in the article.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Guyton AC, Coleman TG, Granger HJ. (2008) -
version02** ](http://www.cellml.org/models/guyton_electrolytes_2008_version02)

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


